# The `camera_tracking` package

This packages contains all nodes, launch files, and configuration files
associated with the
[`rocket_league`](https://github.com/purdue-arc/rocket_league/) project by
the [Purdue University Autonomous Robotics Club](https://www.purduearc.com/).

## Non-rosdep Dependencies
- [`camera_aravis`](https://github.com/purdue-arc/camera_aravis)

## Nodes
### `camera_origin`
Transforms this camera's frame in the tf tree according to an apriltag in the
image defined as the "origin" for the world.

Params:
- `camera_name` (string): The name of the camera. Default: `camera`
- `origin_id` (string): The name of the tag that is being defined as the world
  origin. Default: `origin`
- `update_rate` (double): How often, in seconds, the position should be
  recalculated. Default: `0.1` (10 Hz)

### `tf_parser`
Takes frames of form `cameraname_tagname` and rebroadcasts them as `tagname`.

Params:
- `update_rate` (double): How often, in seconds, the position should be
  recalculated. Default: `0.1` (10 Hz)
- `camera_names` (string array): The names of all cameras in the scene.
- `tag_names` (string): The name of all tags in the scene.

Params:
- `prefix` (string): The name of the camera/the prefix that all other frames
  will be given.
- `queue_size` (int): Size of the queue for message republishing.
  Default: `100`

### `tf_rebroadcaster`
Takes the local tf tree generated by an apriltag detection node and republishes
all frames into the global tf tree as `cameraname_tagname`.

Params:
- `prefix` (string): The name of the camera/the prefix that all other frames
  will be given.
- `queue_size` (int): Size of the queue for message republishing.
  Default: `100`

## Launch files
### `multicam.launch`
Edit this to easily control the launching of multiple cameras.

### `single_camera.launch`
This launch file launches all nodes and nodelets associcated with a single
camera. Most arguments can be safely ignored, with the exception of
`camera_name`

To run: `roslaunch camera_tracking single_camera.launch`

Arguments:
- `camera_name` (string): The name of the camera to be launched. All topics
  will be published under this name, and configuration details will be loaded
  from the `.yaml` with the same name from the `config` directory. See the
  'Configuration files' section for more information. Default: `aravis_cam`.
- `load_manager` (boolean): Whether or not a nodelet manager should be created
  Only one nodelet manager should exist for all cameras. Default: `true`.
- `manager_name` (string): The name of the nodelet manager. If `load_manager` is
  `true`, a nodelet manager is created with this name. If `load_manager`
  is `false`, the nodelet manager with this name is used. Default:
  `camera_manager`.
- `manager_threads` (integer): The number of threads used by the nodelet
  manager, if created. Default: `4`.
- `launch_dynamic_reconfigure` (boolean): Whether or not `rqt_reconfigure`
  should be launched (One instance of `rqt_reconfigure` is enough to
  control all nodes that use it, including all cameras). Default: value of
  `load_manager`.

### `single_webcam.launch`
This launch file launches all nodes and nodelets associcated with a single
webcam, as you would find in `/dev/videoN`. Most arguments can be safely
ignored, with the exception of `camera_name`

To run: `roslaunch camera_tracking single_webcam.launch`

Arguments:
- `camera_name` (string): The name of the camera to be launched. All topics will be
  published under this name, and configuration details will be loaded from
  the `.yaml` with the same name from the `config` directory. See the
  'Configuration files' section for more information. Default: `web_cam`.
- `load_manager` (boolean): Whether or not a nodelet manager should be created. Only
  one nodelet manager should exist for all cameras. Default: `true`.
- `manager_name` (string): The name of the nodelet manager. If `load_manager` is
  `true`, a nodelet manager is created with this name. If `load_manager`
  is `false`, the nodelet manager with this name is used. Default:
  `camera_manager`.
- `manager_threads` (integer): The number of threads used by the nodelet manager, if
  created. Default: `4`.

## Configuration files
Configuration files are located in the `config` directory. They contain configuration information for different cameras, inculding sensor information used by the GenICam standard and distortion/rectification/rectifcation matrices.

Input/Output parameters:
- `guid`: The name of the camera, as seen by aravis/GenICam. The output of
  running `arv-tool-0.6` will suffice.
- `publish_tf`: Whether or not transformation data should be published.
- `tf_publish_rate`: The rate at which transformation data should be
  published.

GenICam settings (if ommited, values will be detected automatically). See the
[GenICam SNFC](https://www.emva.org/wp-content/uploads/GenICam_SFNC_2_0_0.pdf)
for more infomtaion.

Camera Calibration Info. Gotten from running
`rosrun camera_calibration cameracalibrator.py` and copy/pasting the
contents of the resulting `.yml` file into this config file. See the
[`camera_calibration`](https://wiki.ros.org/camera_calibration) package for
more info.